Run `python3 dev/update_changelog.py --prev-version 3.1...` (#16936)
mlflow/mlflow: CHANGELOG.md

- [Models] Fix UnionType support for Python 3.10 style union syntax (#16882, @harupy)
- [Tracing / Tracking] Fix OpenAI autolog Pydantic validation for enum values (#16862, @mohammadsubhani)
- [Tracking] Fix tracing for Anthropic and Langchain combination (#15151, @maver1ck)
- [Models] Fix OpenAI multimodal message logging support (#16795, @mohammadsubhani)
- [Tracing] Avoid using nested threading for Azure Databricks trace export (#16733, @TomeHirata)
- [Evaluation] Bug fix: Databricks GenAI evaluation dataset source returns string, instead of DatasetSource instance (#16712, @dbczumar)
- [Models] Fix `get_model_info` to provide logged model info (#16713, @harupy)
- [Evaluation] Fix serialization and deserialization for python scorers (#16688, @connorchenn)
- [UI] Fix GraphQL handler erroring on NaN metric values (#16628, @daniellok-db)
- [UI] Add back video artifact preview (#16620, @daniellok-db)
- [Tracing] Proper chat message reconstruction from OAI streaming response (#16519, @B-Step62)
- [Tracing] Convert trace column in search_traces() response to JSON string (#16523, @B-Step62)

> - [Models] Refactor: Replace datetime.utcnow() with datetime.now() for consistency in mlflow/models/model.py Resolves #16510 (#16529, @shushantrishav)

Reviewer: They're actually the same

> - [Models] Refactor: Replace datetime.utcnow() with datetime.now() for consistency in mlflow/models/model.py Resolves #16510 (#16529, @shushantrishav)

Reviewer: Filed https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/pull/16938

# CHANGELOG

## 3.2.0rc0 (2025-07-29)

MLflow 3.2.0rc0 includes several major features and improvements

### Major New Features

> - 🧭 **Tracing TypeScript SDK**: MLflow Tracing now supports the TypeScript SDK, making it easier to trace LLM workflows in TypeScript environments.(#16871, @B-Step62)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- 🧭 **Tracing TypeScript SDK**: MLflow Tracing now supports the TypeScript SDK, making it easier to trace LLM workflows in server-side JavaScript environments like Node.(#16871, @B-Step62)
```

> - 🧭 **Tracing TypeScript SDK**: MLflow Tracing now supports the TypeScript SDK, making it easier to trace LLM workflows in TypeScript environments.(#16871, @B-Step62)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- 🧭 **TypeScript SDK**: MLflow Tracing now supports the TypeScript SDK, allowing developers to trace GenAI applications in TypeScript environments.(#16871, @B-Step62)
```
nit

- 🧪 **Assessment Backend**: MLflow OSS now supports tracking assessments, enabling structured evaluation of LLM workflows. (#16743, @BenWilson2)
- 🖥️ **MLflow UI Improvements**: The MLflow UI now features **a redesigned experiment home view** and includes enhancements like pagination on the model page for better usability. (#16464, @frontsideair, #15801, @Flametaa)

> - 📊 **MLflow Telemetry**: Starting with version 3.2.0, MLflow will begin collecting anonymized usage data about how core features of the platform are used. This data contains **no sensitive or personally identifiable information**, and users can opt out of data collection at any time. Check [MLflow documentation](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/community/usage-tracking) for more details. (#16439, @serena-ruan)

Reviewer 2: Telemetry is not a feature. Can we add a separate section for this?

Reviewer: ok

Reviewer 4: Shall we create an issue or something to gather any potential feedback on telemetry?

# CHANGELOG

## 3.2.0rc0 (2025-07-29)

MLflow 3.2.0rc0 includes several major features and improvements

### Major New Features

> 

Reviewer 3: Can we make sure every major feature has links to the related documentation?

- 🧭 **Tracing TypeScript SDK**: MLflow Tracing now supports the TypeScript SDK, making it easier to trace LLM workflows in server-side JavaScript environments like Node. (#16871, @B-Step62)
- 🧪 **Assessment Backend**: MLflow OSS now supports tracking assessments, enabling structured evaluation of LLM workflows. (#16743, @BenWilson2)
- 🖥️ **MLflow UI Improvements**: The MLflow UI now features **a redesigned experiment home view** and includes enhancements like pagination on the model page for better usability. (#16464, @frontsideair, #15801, @Flametaa)

### 📊 Usage Tracking (New in 3.2.0)

> - Starting with version 3.2.0, MLflow will begin collecting anonymized usage data about how core features of the platform are used. This data contains **no sensitive or personally identifiable information**, and users can opt out of data collection at any time. Check [MLflow documentation](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/community/usage-tracking) for more details. (#16439, @serena-ruan)

Reviewer: Emm should we? I'm fine with either, but I feel like here is obvious enough. I think we should highlight new features more than this

> - Starting with version 3.2.0, MLflow will begin collecting anonymized usage data about how core features of the platform are used. This data contains **no sensitive or personally identifiable information**, and users can opt out of data collection at any time. Check [MLflow documentation](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/community/usage-tracking) for more details. (#16439, @serena-ruan)

Reviewer: I'll keep it here then, since it's quite obvious with a heading. And I want to highlight all the features above

> - Starting with version 3.2.0, MLflow will begin collecting anonymized usage data about how core features of the platform are used. This data contains **no sensitive or personally identifiable information**, and users can opt out of data collection at any time. Check [MLflow documentation](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/community/usage-tracking) for more details. (#16439, @serena-ruan)

Reviewer 2: Sounds good.

> 

Reviewer 3: Can we move this up to major feature? This is highly requested one from DBX customers as well.

Features:

- [Tracing] Semantic Kernel Tracing (#16469, @michael-berk)
- [Tracing] Include mlflow-tracing as a dependency of mlflow (#16589, @B-Step62)

> - [Tracing] Convert DatabricksRM output to MLflow document format (#16866, @WeichenXu123)

Reviewer 3: Let's consolidate these token count PRs (+ollama / deepseek below)

- [Tracing] Add unified token usage tracking for Bedrock LLMs (#16351, @mohammadsubhani)
- [Tracing] Token usage tracking for agent frameworks including PydanticAI, Anthropic, Autogen etc. (#16251, #16362, #16246, #16258, #16313, #16312, #16340, @joelrobin18)
- [Tracking] Token usage tracking for LlamaIndex (#16387, @sanatb187)

> - [Tracing] Render multi-modal trace for LangChain (#16799, @B-Step62)

Reviewer 3: Probably worth mentioning as a major feature (frequently requested)

- [Tracing] Support async tracing for Gemini (#16632, @B-Step62)
- [Tracing] Support global sampling for tracing (#16700, @B-Step62)
- [Tracing] Support PII masking via custom span post-processor (#16344, @B-Step62)
- [Tracing] ResponsesAgent tracing aggregation (#16787, @bbqiu)
- [Tracing] Add Agent and LLM complete name (#16613, @joelrobin18)

> - [Tracking] Allow setting thread-local tracing destination via mlflow.tracing.set_destination (#16859, @WeichenXu123)

Reviewer 3: This is also worth highlighting (20+ thumbs up in OSS issue)

- [Tracking] Introduce MLFLOW_DISABLE_SCHEMA_DETAILS environment variable to toggle detailed schema errors (#16631, @NJAHNAVI2907)
- [Tracking] Add support for chat-style prompts with structured output with prompt object (#16341, @harshilprajapati96)

> - [Tracking] Add polars dataset (#13006, @AlpAribal)

Reviewer 3: This is also worth highlighting (20+ thumbs up in OSS issue)
